# OMGAM 2019.Jan OSRdF
*Old School Rollunder dF*

## Components
The Table refers to the collective group of players who participate in the game.  One of these players is the Ref.

The players are responsible for the actions of their Characters, and use Fudge dice to determine the outcome of their actions.

Fudge dice (dF) have an equal number of Plus, Blank, and Minus sides.  These are treated as +1, 0, and -1 respectively.

## Play
During play, each player controls one or more characters.  Characters have six attributes that describe their abilities.  Each attribute may be rated from -2 through +2.  The attributes are:

* **Brawn** : bulk, strength, vitality
* **Grace** : dexterity, agility, speed
* **Creativity** : unstructured thinking, creating
* **Logic** : structured thinking, learned skills
* **Will** : focus, prolonged activity, determination
* **Empathy** : relating to others, understanding
    
The Ref is a player who facilitates conversation at the table and adjudicates the play of the game.  They will make decisions about story elements and may make rulings when needed.  Often, the Ref will be responsible for many minor characters or setting elements, which do not always need to be fully detailed with attributes.

## Action
When there is a dramatic need -- possibly because of an interesting risk of failure or a need to create tension -- select two attributes that most represent the activity described.  

Action is resolved by rolling four Fudge dice (4dF) and summing the results.

The total must be lower than the sum of two attributes chosen previously.

The margin of success of failure determines how well the action succeeded, or how spectacularly it failed.

When characters actions oppose one another, roll for each and compare margin of success. 

## Creating a Character
Roll 2dF for each stat, to obtain a value from -2 to +2.

## Examples
* Brawn + Brawn :            *brute force*
* Brawn + Grace :            *gymnastics, swimming*
* Brawn + Creativity :       *pugilism, free climbing*
* Brawn + Logic :            *skilled labor*
* Brawn + Will :             *stamina, immunities*
* Brawn + Empathy :          *physical intimidation*
* Grace + Grace :            *poise, muscle memory*
* Grace + Creativity :       *quick reflexes*
* Grace + Logic :            *learned skill, moves*
* Grace + Will :             *Endurance (eg racing)*
* Grace + Empathy :          *swing dance, judo*
* Creativity + Creativity :  *finding inspiration*
* Creativity + Logic :       *knowledge work*
* Creativity + Will :        *writing novel*
* Creativity + Empathy :     *persuasion*
* Logic + Logic :            *structured analysis*
* Logic + Will :             *solving puzzles*
* Logic + Empathy :          *argue, psychoanalysis*
* Will + Will :              *set mind in motion*
* Will + Empathy :           *Demanding, gaslighting*
* Empathy + Empathy :        *reading people or groups*

[OSRdF](https://github.com/mootootwo/omgam) by [Luke Miller](https://twitter.com/mootootwo) is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).
